<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER XIV.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN SAT AT FEAST IN PALADORE WITH THE COMPANY OF THE TOWER AND THE COMPANY OF THE EAGLE.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">Now the hall was ordered within as for a feast, and the ordering of it was after the accustomed manner of feasts: for at one end of it was a high table upon a dais, and other two tables there were that came squarely therefrom as the two posts of a door come squarely from the lintel. And the napery upon the tables was fine and white, and the dishes were of silver: but upon the dais was a cupboard, and the cups upon it and the ewers and the plates were all of gold. And up and down the hall there went six marshals who showed courteously to each man where he should be seated: and they showed to Ywain a seat at the high table, and when he sat therein he overlooked wellnigh all the hall. Then came two pages with water to let wash his hands, whereof he thanked them without feigning. Then the marshals brought to him those that should sit on either side of him, and when they had demanded of Ywain how he should be called, then they named each to other by their names. And of those two the one was called Sir Rainald, and he was shaped like a pear and yellowed in face, and slow of speech as one upon whom men wait: and about his neck was a gold chain, and a jewel of gold hung thereby, made in the fashion of a tower. But the other of them was by name Hubert, and he was a young man and slight; and he bore upon him the scutcheon of the Eagle, and his speech was restless and full of joy.</p>

    <p>Then stood up a great Archbishop, and a herald smote upon the table and called loudly for silence: and when the Archbishop had spoken a set piece of grace, then all men stirred and sat them down again with much clatter. And thereupon came servitors and served every man with meat and drink.</p>

    <p>And as Ywain ate and drank his weariness departed and his spirit came again to him, and he was minded to learn the truth of all that he had seen that day. To which end he turned him first to Sir Rainald, seeing that he was manifestly of the Tower and dwelt, as Ywain supposed, within the city. But Sir Rainald was not to be so handled: for he was such an one as would liever ask ten questions than answer two, and his manner of speaking was like water that is slow and deep, against which there is no force to stand, but only to go therewith. Yet was the man courteous after his kind, for he said how that Ywain had done well, as for so young a fighter, and might yet come to some good. And though he knew it not, yet in one matter he told Ywain that which he would have asked him: for when he began to speak he demanded to know this, whether Ywain had been in Paladore at any time past, or was only that day come among them. And thereby Ywain perceived that the name of the city was called Paladore.</p>

    <p>Then in no long time weariness came again upon Ywain, and he left speaking with Sir Rainald, making excuse in the best manner that he could: and he set his hope upon the young man Hubert, for he saw that he bore the scutcheon of the Eagle. And Hubert told him all that he asked, and more thereto: for he said that what was done was done according to the custom of the city, whereby each year they banished all such of the young men as had come to their strength : and once in each year the young men came before the gate in a company and demanded to enter, and they were favoured of many within the city, but certain of the elders went out and fought with them to drive them away. And this they did because of the company of the Tower: for it was a most ancient company, and they feared greatly lest the young men should change the ordinance thereof, seeing that it was fitter for men in age than in youth.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain asked him concerning the company of the Eagle, and first, what was the ordinance of it: and Hubert said that they had no ordinance but one, and that was that every man should wear his own colours and do after his own heart: and this also, that he should always and in all places fight against the Tower. Then Ywain asked him again whether it was so that the Eagles had always the better of the Tower, as they had at this present. And Hubert said that there was no such fortune: for though they were many in number and of a great spirit, yet they were poor and poorly furnished: and there was yet another reason, and that was because they kept no fellowship together and had small knowledge of war. For as soon as one of them gathered skill or strength in fighting, they of the Tower came secretly and offered him entrance, so that for the time to come he fought not against them. Yet, time and again, he said, there would come one that could not be reckoned with; so that once in ten years, as it might be, the Eagles would have the mastery; and for the hope of such an one the horn was blown, to call him to the place of the fighting.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain left that, lest he should seem to speak of himself, and he said how he was astonished because that he saw about him both those of the Eagle and those of the Tower, sitting and feasting together after so cruel a day's work. And Hubert answered that this also was of the custom, and great was the evil that came of it: for though a young man, he said, may become old before his time, never will an old man come back into the mind of his youth, so that it was but according with nature that through the mingling of the companies the Tower should be continually plenished and the Eagles minished.</p>

    <p>Then the herald called again for silence, and Ywain and Hubert spoke no more together. And when the Archbishop had chanted yet another piece then all men went out from the hall.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
