<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER XXIII.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN EMPRISED TO GO TO THE CITY OF THE SAINTS AND SO INTO THE DELECTABLE ISLE.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">So within a while he came to the gate, and found it wide open. And when he had passed out he looked towards Paladore, for they which brought him thence had spoken of a day and a night, and they said how they would return again thereafter, if perchance they might find him still in life and understanding. And as he looked he saw far off a company that moved upon the road hitherward: but he perceived that they came not ahorse but afoot, and they were not two but many. Also they were banded in good order as they came, and kept measure, foot by foot, and they sang all together: and that which they sang was a godly hymn, but it was some deal fierce in the singing.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain stood still to mark their passing: but they left him not so. For when they were now going by him he saw among them the young man named Bartholomy, that was friend to him in Paladore, and Bartholomy had sight of Ywain also in the same instant. And he ceased from his singing and ran out of the company and came to Ywain and took him by the two hands: and he entreated him to be of the company and to go with them. And Ywain was little loth, for he saw how their backs were turned on Paladore, and he cared not greatly whither he went, so only he went not to that city. So he gave Bartholomy neither nay nor yea to his entreaty, but he began to go with him slowly, following behind the company.</p>

    <p>And as they went Ywain began to ask of him to what place they were going and on what adventure. And Bartholomy answered him quickly and said how that it was no adventure but a high emprise, sounding in life and death, yea, of their very souls. For they were aweary of Paladore and misdoubted of all the customs there, seeing how they were hard customs with no kindness or godliness in them. Also he said how that in all the world there might no peace be found, save only in the City of the Saints: and that was by report far off and beset of many enemies. Yet were they vowed both to come thither and to dwell therein, if by endurance and good hope they might achieve their vows.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain asked him: Whence then hath the City this peace? And Bartholomy said: The report of it is diverse. For some men say of it that it cometh by one way and some by another: as first, by conquest, for they that dwell there do continually subdue their enemies. But this to my thinking is a doubtful saying. And secondly, as some have said, it cometh by hope of reward: for the people of the Saints trade thence into the Delectable Isle, where a man may have all that he will, whether of gold or ivory. And this also, said Bartholomy, I take for profit rather than for peace. But the third way is by good ordinance, for in that city they follow not their own will, nor strive amongst themselves, but every one to serve another: also they do nothing waywardly, but all things by rule and governance. And for this peace I long both by day and by night.</p>

    <p>Then as he heard him Ywain was kindled a little, and he said within himself: I also am aweary, and would serve another, and not myself. And whether all this be true I cannot tell, but as I guess it is an old report that has warped in wandering. For what is this Delectable Isle wherein a man may have all his desire, if it be not that Aladore which I am to look for over sea, and who knows but I may come thither and find my lady and my love? But to Bartholomy he told nothing of his musing: only he took him by the arm and said that he would go with him and see this city. And therewith he pressed his arm in token of fellowship: for he drew near to him in spirit because of his voice, and because of the words which he had spoken.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
