<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER L.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO ALADORE THE LAST TIME, AS IN THIS TRANSITORY LIFE.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">Now Ywain was known of none, for he was in a sure place and looked forth above the heads of the multitude. But he perceived all that was done, and none better, and he understood right well the evil malice and craft of his enemies, and his heart was pricked therewith as with the poison of wasps. And the tolling of the bell be regarded not, neither the treading of the candles, for he held such things to be shows to frighten fools: but the curses and the sentences, and all the words of the Archbishop, those stung his blood and made bitterness in his throat.</p>

    <p>Then he thought to get some comfort of the people which were round about him, and he went forward a little and mingled with them and heard their talk. And at the first he had some pleasure of them, for there was not one in twenty but was making merry, with no saving of reverence, no, not of the Archbishop himself. But therewith came displeasure, that he also was but lightly accounted of: for the most part of the crowd made no distinction, but they cheapened the sin with the punishment. And the best that he could find was this, that the young and lean men were for him and the old and fat against him: for in Paladore the old dream not, save it be of gold and gluttony. And with this he was but ill content, for they which are young in that city are no more than one in three, and they are of small account, seeing that the best of them are banished.</p>

    <p>So he left that and came away covertly to his own house, and he found Aithne therein, and told her of all that he had seen and heard. And of the pain which he had in his heart, of this he told her not, but she perceived it by the manner of his speaking, for she knew his thought as it were by touch and not by words. And she said to him: It is no marvel if you are in pain: for there is no venom in nature like to the venom of speech, and many times it will work madness in the blood. But there is good magic against it, as I shall show you presently, for this is a woman's gift from the time out of mind. And bethink you also how their curses are no better than their ceremonies, and both alike folly: for they are but tokens and have in them no power to make good.</p>

    <p>Nay, said Ywain, but they have this power, that they hurt where they are aimed: for in another man's case I had never regarded them, but when they struck my own name then they pierced and rankled. And thereat he cast down his eyes and fell into a weariness. And Aithne came to him and stood beside him where he sat, and she took his head between her arms and drew it in upon her breast. And immediately the bands of his weariness were loosed, and his spirit was rocked in a sure hold as a young child is rocked by his mother: and he shut to his eyes and remembered no more the things which were done against his peace.</p>

    <p>Then he opened his eyes again, and he saw how that he stood in a meadow of flowers, and the flowers were kingcups and lady-smocks and other such as are chiefly loved of children. And among the flowers there ran a little brook, and in the brook were minnows going all one way like boats upon a wind; and it seemed to Ywain that it were worth all other joys if he might take but one minnow in his naked hand. And not far off from him stood a little maid and called to him: and she called him to come home, for it was time. And he knew that she was his sister, that was his elder by two years, and it was in his mind to obey her, but not yet. Then he stretched out his hand and stooped forward above the brook, and he snatched suddenly at a minnow that was there: and the sedge yielded beneath him and he fell with his arms upon the water. And immediately he came to his feet again and stood upon the meadow: but he was all bedabbled and bedrenched, and he feared to be chidden, and his fear burst forth from him and he wept.</p>

    <p>Then the maid that was his sister came to him and stood beside him, and took his head between her arms and drew it in upon her breast. And he shut to his eyes and immediately his fear was stayed and the water was dried upon his arms and upon his feet, and his heart was comforted. And he opened his eyes again and looked about him, and he saw the place wherein he was: and the place was changed and was become Aladore, and he sat by the margent of the sea, where he had been aforetime, and Aithne was there beside him to his solace.</p>

    <p>And he said to her: O my beloved, what enchantment is this that you have used? For I have been a child again, and in great grief concerning little things: and I have been comforted with the comfort of my mother and of my sister which are long since dead and gone from me.</p>

    <p>And Aithne stooped over him and kissed him and said: Even so, beloved, and this enchantment is no marvel, seeing that it is common with them which are lovers of men: for it is the gift of a woman, and an heritage from the time that is out of mind.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
