<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER XIX.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN SPOKE WITH THE PRINCE OF PALADORE AND HOW HE TOOK UPON HIM THREE ADVENTURES.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">So when he had met with Sir Rainald, they two went up together into the Great Gard: and when they came therein Ywain perceived that Maurice had told him truth, for the house was high and wide and full of great chambers, and in no way fit to be the dwelling of a man, save he were of a bigness beyond all other. Also he saw that the farther from the gate the taller were all those on whom he came: and it seemed to him as though he also took some change thereby. For when he had been brought into the chamber that lay before the chamber where the Prince was, then he began to doubt of his own stature, and his bones became shrunken and his sinews weak within him.</p>

    <p>Then came lords unto Ywain and unto Sir Rainald, and put robes upon them and so led them in. And when they were come in they found the Prince at play, sitting upon the floor of the chamber: and beside him upon the floor were a multitude of toys, fashioned after the likeness of men-at-arms, and he made them go hither and thither as he would, so that it was a marvel to behold. And when he saw Ywain and Sir Rainald he ceased not from his playing, but he called to them lightly to come on, and take their share in his pastime. And Ywain wondered and looked hard at him: for the words were the words of a child, but he that spoke them was by all seeming a man of forty year.</p>

    <p>Then at the last, when he had done with his playing, the Prince came to his feet, and he was nothing terrible, for all his bigness. Neither was he a child, no, not by some deal: for he asked such questions as they ask that have seen the manner of men, and of women also. But he said not many things of his own, nor new things in any sort: and it was plain to see that his bonds wearied him. And Ywain also they wearied, for he could not choose but watch them glittering upon the Prince, so that he seemed to bear the burden of them himself.</p>

    <p>Then the Prince brought him to a window that looked upon the city, and he asked Ywain whether it were in his mind to stay in Paladore or to go from thence shortly. Then Ywain remembered his lady Aithne, and he answered quickly that if it pleased the Prince he was minded to stay. And the Prince was pleased thereat, and he said that he looked for Ywain to take upon him certain adventures; for so did all those that had so much of skill and fortune. And Ywain answered yea, for he loved this Prince and thought no evil of him: but he knew not of what adventures he would speak. Then the Prince looked at him pleasantly: and he considered a little, as a man considers of divers meats upon the board, every one of them sweet to his tooth. Then he named to Ywain three several adventures, that he would have him take upon himself: and he named the first thereof the adventure of the Chess, and the second the adventure of the Howling Beast, and the third he named the adventure of the Castle of Maidens.</p>

    <p>Then it seemed to Ywain as though his stature had returned to him, and he answered lightly that he would take upon him these adventures, and that forthwith: and the Prince gave him leave to depart, and said how that he had done well and should yet do better. And this also was Ywain's thought within himself: but in the same moment he looked upon the face of Sir Rainald, and he saw it as the face of a fox, well pleased with the cunning that he has practised.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
