<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER LIII.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO PALADORE THE LAST TIME, AND HOW THE SNOW FELL ALL NIGHT LONG.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">THEN they looked upon that star, and as they looked they marvelled and were dismayed, for a great cloud came up and took the star from them utterly. And with the cloud came a wind, exceeding cold and bitter, and they perceived how that in one hour the year was turned to winter; and the wind got hold upon their bones and shrunk them, and their hearts were sick with silence and foreboding. Then the wind fell again suddenly, and the snow began to come thickly down the air, and it came upon their faces now driving and now feathering, in manner as the wind was still or gusty.</p>

    <p>So they bent down their heads and went through the city at speed, devising whither they should go and of whom they should seek counsel. And as they went they met one which passed them by: yet by seeming he knew them as he passed, and he stayed and turned him about upon the street. And he called not to them, but he made haste and followed after them, and when he was come near he looked about him warily and came nearer yet. And Ywain peered at him through the darkness and the snow falling, and he perceived that he was Dennis that had been friend and fellow to him: and for all the pains and curses that were against him Ywain misdoubted not of his faith. And as he trusted, so it was: for Dennis took him and pressed his hand, and he pressed it strongly in token of friendship, but he spoke no word. Then Ywain thought on danger and remembered him of his enemies, and he bade Dennis go before, in manner of one that had no knowledge of any beside himself, and so bring them to some place where they might speak together. And Dennis went quickly before, and brought them into Aithne's own house, that was long time deserted and out of mind of all men. And when they were come there they entered in full silently, for they spoke no word, and their feet were dumb with snow. And they climbed the stairs groping, and came into the upper chamber, that was Aithne's, and made fast the door: and they darkened the window and kindled a little fire upon the hearth. And the fire took hold and grew, and they had joy of it, for in a fire there will be comfort against misery, as in a thing that hath life and fellowship.</p>

    <p>Then they began to speak together, and Ywain asked of Dennis what should be the meaning of the horn which he had heard blowing. And thereat Dennis was astonished, as one that understands not what is asked of him: and at the last he said to Ywain: Whence are you come hither, and by what error deceived? For there has no horn been blown in Paladore this year. Then he said again: It is a marvel: for the blowing of the horn is for to-morrow, and it is agreed among us that at the sound of it the Eagles shall draw together and make war against them of the Tower.</p>

    <p>Then said Ywain: So be it, and good end thereto: yet without doubt I heard the horn, and for that sake only did I come hither. And Aithne said: I also heard it, and no marvel: for there is a hearing of the spirit, and many times one friend may perceive another's counsel, and as well far as near, and as well before as after.</p>

    <p>And to that Dennis gave assent, for he had heard the same of certain others: and he told Ywain and Aithne of the counsel of the Eagles. For their purpose was to bring in Hubert and all other banished men, and they would have no more such banishing henceforth, but all to live and let live. And they devised to go upon their enemies by two ways and so come against them unaware: and namely that one party should take the gate and the other party the great Hall. For that Hall was the chief place of the city, where was ever the concourse and the government: and there should be their stronghold and the blowing of the horn. And at the sound of the horn should come Hubert and his before the gate, and so to break in with force. And though their emprise was hazardous, yet they looked to achieve it, seeing that the Prince of Paladore was suddenly departed out of this life without survivors to inherit him, and by likelihood the great ones would be in confusion.</p>

    <p>So all these counsels Dennis showed unto Ywain and Aithne, and it was long before he made an end of speaking. And when he had made an end they three sat silent, looking upon the fire; and the logs crumbled upon the hearth and the fire began to fail. And Ywain rose up and unbarred the window to behold the night: and the snow fell without ceasing, and it lay in a great crust upon the sill. Then Ywain sighed and shut to the window, for he was a-weary of the darkness, and he took wood and kindled the fire again, blowing upon the ashes with his breath. And they three outwore the night together, speaking of old things and things to come, and watching for the dawn.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
