<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER LVI.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN BEHELD A DEAD MAN LAID ON BIER.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">NOW when Sir Rainald was departed the men of the Tower made no more show of fighting, but they drew off a little space and set a watch upon the Eagles: and they fetched wood and kindled them a fire, for the day began to darken and the snow was cold about their feet. And the Eagles kept their guard upon the steps, for they durst not move therefrom, but their hope was that Hubert and his should presently break in and rescue them.</p>

    <p>And the dusk fell, and Ywain looked forth over the market-place, and he saw a child which walked alone and made to come from the one side to the other openly. And by his going Ywain knew him without doubt, and he was the boy by whom he had gone forth on pilgrimage. And he saw how the boy passed through the midst of the spearmen and they perceived him not: and though he trod downright upon the snow, yet he left behind him no footprint nor any mark of his going. And as he had passed through the spearmen so also he passed among the Eagles, and he came to Ywain and took him by the hand: and he led him through the Hall and through the bailey, and brought him to the chapel.</p>

    <p>Now the chapel was dim with twilight, and Ywain entered within it and stood still; for he looked to see Aithne, and at the first he saw her not. But the child that was with him drew him by the hand, and he went farther, and came before the altar. And there upon the north side of the choir was a tomb beneath a canopy of carven stone, and the tomb was by seeming empty, for there was upon it no effigy, nor arms nor words memorial; but beside it was Aithne in sanctuary, and she was fallen asleep upon the floor of the chapel. And Ywain regarded her lovingly, and he had great comfort of her beauty, seeing how she lay as one at rest and upon her face was no care but only the softness of sleep. Then the child left holding of Ywain's hand, and he went apart and kneeled upon the step which was before the altar, and there he folded his hands together and bowed his head: and when Ywain saw him so kneeling, then upon him also fell peace and quietness of heart. And he bowed his head after the like manner, and when he lifted it up he saw the child no more.</p>

    <p>Then he heard above him the sound of a bell that was tolling stroke by stroke, and the door of the chapel was opened behind him and the sound of the bell came in clearly, and with it came a wind as cold as death. And Ywain turned and saw how there entered in six men in white clothes and black, with hoods about their faces: and they bore upon their shoulders a bier, and that which lay thereon was covered with a pall. And the three which were on one side were all in black, and the three which were on the other side were all in white: and they set down the bier before the altar and kneeled beside it. And there came in after them a great company of knights, and they were all armed and visored, and their surcoats above their armour were of black or else of white. And with that company the chapel was fulfilled from end to end and from side to side, and in every knight's hand was a candle burning; and the flame of the candles was clear and bright, and wavered not for any wind.</p>

    <p>Then one stood forth between the altar and the bier, and prayed aloud; and the words which he prayed were old words, yet was their sound stranger than an unknown tongue. And thereafter he began to sing a solemn chant, and all the company of knights made their response: and the sound of their chanting went over Ywain as it were the deep sea closing up his eyes. And he strove with all his force, whether to move from that place or to cry out, for he was in an agony: but neither his body moved nor his tongue gave utterance.</p>

    <p>Then he that said the office made a sign of blessing, and the knights fell down upon their knees. And afterwards they rose up altogether and chanted again right joyfully, and they went forth singing, and the sound of their voices came back out of the night. And they left there the bier before the altar, and at the head of it were seven candles burning.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain was loosed from his bondage and his spirit returned into his body, and he wept silently because his agony was past. And he longed to find the meaning of that which he had seen, for in his life-days he had seen many visions and dreamed many dreams, but none like to this, neither for dread nor for deliverance. And as he thought thereon he cast his eyes upon the bier, and when he beheld it he knew that the vision was not yet ended, seeing that this also was part of it.</p>

    <p>Then he went forward, for his feet drew him; yet he trembled also and his heart was shaken, and he had great need of hardihood. And he came trembling and stood beside the bier and looked down upon the pall: and under it was the semblance of one lying alone. And Ywain put forth his hand and took hold on the edge of the pall, and he drew back the pall upon the bier and looked and saw the face of him which lay thereon. And when he beheld it, in that same instant there came into his mind remembrance of all deeds that ever he had done, and he saw them afar off, and some of them were as lights which flare up and fade again, and other of them were as fires which smoulder and will not be put out. And in like manner he remembered all men and all women whomsoever he had known, and he saw them afar off and had pleasure in them all: for he saw them not as doers of good and of evil but as pilgrims only, and every one walking by the light that was in him.</p>

    <p>Then he stretched out his hand and took the pall again to cover the face of the dead. And when he had covered it he stood a long time questioning: for the face which he had seen was his own face, and it was secret as silence is secret.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
