<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER XXVII.</span><br/>
    HOW YWAIN WAS BIDDEN TO AN ABBEY AND SO TO BE ENTRAPPED BY TREASON.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">WHEN Aithne had so said she stood looking upon Ywain: and her face was troubled, and her soul looked out of her eyes patiently, as it were one waiting for the dawn. For she was but newly come from Aladore, and she remembered as of yesterday how her mother had spoken with her before her death. And of Ywain she knew well that he was in good truth her friend and her lover: but for the rest she doubted, and in especial whether he were of one kind with her, that they might dwell together and find no division. And Ywain looked upon Aithne, and he also was troubled, but after another fashion: for he doubted not of her, but of himself.</p>

    <p>So they stood looking, on the one part and on the other: and they knew not how for all their doubting their spirits were already handfast, and devising of fellowship together. Nor they knew not what was being contrived against them and against their pilgrimage. For they talked, as they supposed, in secret: but in secret also they were betrayed.</p>

    <p>Then suddenly there came a little noise of rustling, as of one that went by stealth among the laylock bushes. And Ywain started and strode forth and looked along the garden: and he saw a man going hard away from him, and no other near that place. Then he would have followed after him: but the going of that man was marvellous, for he went not by leaping but by creeping, like a lizard going among grass. So Ywain came again to Aithne, and told her of that which he had seen: and they laughed thereat together. And Ywain was a little shamed, and thought no more of it: but Aithne laid it by, for she perceived that there was treason.</p>

    <p>Then they went out from the garden, and so departed slowly each from other: and they made promise to come together day by day until the third day thereafter. For on the third day at night was the time of the moon's changing, when they should escape out of the City of the Saints. But when Ywain thought thereon he could not tell how it might be compassed. And he doubted not without reason, seeing that he was still in subjection. For when he was together with Aithne he heard only her voice and nothing else: but when he was gone from her, then perforce he would follow the usage of the city and hear bells to his pleasure.</p>

    <p>Now on the morning of the third day, when Ywain was not yet gone forth, there came in Bartholomy to speak with him. And he bade Ywain to a bell-ringing in a certain Abbey of the city: for he showed him how it was that night the festival of the Golden Bell. And he said how that bell was rung but once in the year, upon a solemn watch-night: and men were bidden thereto by no common favour. Then Ywain answered Bartholomy gladly, and was accorded to go with him. Then in the same moment he remembered Aithne and the words which she had spoken: for this was the night when the moon should change. And he would have made excuse to forsake the festival: but Bartholomy held him strongly thereto. So Ywain left him alone and went to seek his lady.</p>

    <p>And when he had met with her, he told her all: and she said to him: This is the treason, for he that devised it is the same which heard me say how you were bellbound. And the snare is the festival, and Bartholomy is the decoy: but he that sent him to you is some greater one, for it is he that has bidden you both. Then Ywain said: It is Vincent, for he brought us in hither, and he crept upon us so in the beginning, as a cat creeps upon young birds at the dusk. And it will be hard for me to escape from him, for he is of great power in the city.</p>

    <p>But Aithne smiled a little and said: A great power and a strong magic: yet it may be that there is a stronger. And the trial shall be between him and me: for before the moon changes I shall be gone into the Lost Lands of the South. And I bid you to my tryst as he hath bidden you to his.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
