<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Aladore</title>
  <link href="../Styles/aladore1.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapterHeading"><span class="chapterNumber">CHAPTER II.</span><br/>
    HOW SIR YWAIN SAW HIS OWN FACE THE FIRST TIME.</h2>

    <p class="firstParagraph">Now the truth is that when Ywain turned his back on his old life and the snug lordship that was his, he had no thought of what was to be the way of his wandering, nor did he so much as know by which of the world's four roads he would begin his journey. But he climbed upon the open wold as if all his pleasure was to climb and to strike his feet firmly and to breathe deep: and the boy went by his side in like manner, and they spoke no word.</p>

    <p>But when they were come to the height of the slope, Ywain turned and looked down upon the homestead of Sulney, and he saw it small and clear under the midday sun, as like as may be to a toy that a child would play with: and there was no man moving about it, but only the white pigeons flying this way and that upon the roofs. And it was lovely to him, for he saw it as a time that is past.</p>

    <p>Then he looked a little farther, and he saw the broad road, and dust kindling along it like smoke, and in the dust a great company riding: and they rode in order by two and by two, and their jogging was heavy, and Ywain remembered that these were the lords who had appointed to do business with him.</p>

    <p>And because of them the place was no longer lovely to him, and he turned away and ran quickly over the ridge, and when he could see them no more he laughed: and the boy also ran and laughed, and their laughter was as though they were both truants from school, escaping narrowly with fear and joy together. And on the other side of the ridge they cast themselves down upon the grass, and among the grass were thistles, and the thistles pricked them sharply, and they rolled and were pricked again, and laughed again and yet again.</p>

    <p>Then they set their shoulders against a bank, and sat still, looking to the country that was before them. On the one hand lay the sea near by, and upon it white sails of ships that were sailing marvellously, for though they were upon the sea yet they sailed, as it seemed, high above the land. And on the other side lay a thick wood that hid all the far country, and before the wood was a village and a tower. And Ywain knew that village well enough, cot and lot, barn and balk, and he thought not at all of the village, but only of the wood and the great depth of it and of what might be beyond. And so thinking he fell asleep.</p>

    <p>But when he awoke the sun was westering, and he looked again upon the village and saw it as though it were strange to him, and he could not remember even the name of it. Then he stood up, and turned towards the place beside him where the boy had been: and as he looked he was astonished, for the boy was there still, sleeping as himself had slept, but his face was like the face of an old man, and the lines upon it were countless, like bird-marks on the river sand.</p>

    <p>So Ywain stood staring for a while, and he said to himself: Now I know by the trouble in my head that either I have lost my wits, as a man beat down in battle, or else in all this there is a meaning that I have known and forgotten, for it seems to be both reasonable and impossible. Then he touched the boy's hand and awoke him, and when he saw his eyes again, he asked him: Who, then, are you?</p>

    <p>And the boy said: Answer me first the same question.</p>

    <p>But Ywain would not, for he said: Why must I answer first?</p>

    <p>And the boy said: Let be, then; for you know already what you would answer, and there is but one and the same answer to your question and to mine.</p>

    <p>Then Ywain looked no more into the boy's eyes but upon the ground, and bewilderment came upon him again, for he said in his heart: This that he says is madness, and yet I seem to know that it is true. And when he lifted his head again he said to the boy: How can a man speak with himself face to face: and how can I, that am neither, be both an old man and a boy?</p>

    <p>But the boy answered him: Is not every man that which was and that which shall be: and in all the days of his life shall he not once or twice see the face of his desire? And as he spoke Ywain heard him plainly, but now he saw him not so plainly, though he stood looking down upon him in the same place: and he said quickly: Tell me this, then: what is my desire?</p>

    <p>And he heard again the answer as one that hears a voice through the mist: but the words were in an unknown tongue. And he peered down, and stooped, and where the boy had been there was but the long grass and the thistles: and when he rose up again he saw the hillside clear before him, and the sun was low and the edges of the bents were glistening, and nothing moved among them but the wind of sunset.</p>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
