<?xml  version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE  html>

<html xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Contents</title>
  <link href="../Styles/toc.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="toc">
    <h1 class="tocTitle">CONTENTS</h1>
    <hr class="tocStart"/>

    <ol class="tocList">
      <li><a href="../Text/chapter01.xhtml">OF THE HALL OF SULNEY AND HOW SIR YWAIN LEFT IT.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter02.xhtml">HOW SIR YWAIN SAW HIS OWN FACE THE FIRST TIME.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter03.xhtml">HOW IT FORTUNED TO YWAIN TO FIND A STAFF IN THE PLACE OF HIS SWORD.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter04.xhtml">HOW YWAIN CAME TO AN HERMITAGE IN A WOOD.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter05.xhtml">OF THE HERMIT AND OF HIS DEALING WITH YWAIN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter06.xhtml">YET MORE OF THE HERMIT, AND OF A WORD THAT WAS IN YWAIN'S EARS.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter07.xhtml">HOW YWAIN LOOKED INTO THE WATER OF A WELL, AND OF THAT WHICH HE SAW THEREIN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter08.xhtml">HOW THE HERMIT SET YWAIN ON HIS WAY AND OF TWO SECRETS THAT HE TOLD HIM.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter09.xhtml">OF YWAIN'S JOURNEY BY NIGHT, AND HOW HE WAS BROUGHT BY A LADY TO THE PLACE OF HIS VISION, AND SO LEFT HER.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter10.xhtml">OF THE LADY AITHNE, AND OF THE GIFTS THAT SHE HAD FROM HER BIRTH.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter11.xhtml">HOW THE LADY AILINN DEPARTED OUT OF THIS LIFE AND OF THE COUNSEL THAT SHE GAVE TO HER DAUGHTER AITHNE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter12.xhtml">OF THE WARRING OF TWO COMPANIES, AND HOW YWAIN DID BATTLE FOR THE ONE OF THEM AGAINST THE OTHER.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter13.xhtml">HOW YWAIN WAS BROUGHT INTO THE CITY OF PALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter14.xhtml">HOW YWAIN SAT AT FEAST IN PALADORE WITH THE COMPANY OF THE TOWER AND THE COMPANY OF THE EAGLE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter15.xhtml">OF THE GIFTS THAT WERE GIVEN TO YWAIN AND OF A DREAM THAT HE DREAMED.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter16.xhtml">HOW YWAIN FOUND HIS LADY AGAIN, AND HOW SHE WENT FROM HIM THE SECOND TIME.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter17.xhtml">OF ALADORE AND OF THE SANDS CALLED THE SHEPHERDINE SANDS.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter18.xhtml">OF PALADORE AND OF THE PRINCES THEREOF.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter19.xhtml">HOW YWAIN SPOKE WITH THE PRINCE OF PALADORE AND HOW HE TOOK UPON HIM THREE ADVENTURES.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter20.xhtml">OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE CHESS, AND BY WHAT MEANS YWAIN BROUGHT HIS MEN INTO OBEDIENCE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter21.xhtml">OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE CASTLE OF MAIDENS AND HOW YWAIN WAS COUNSELLED TO ESCAPE THEREFROM.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter22.xhtml">OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE HOWLING BEAST.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter23.xhtml">HOW YWAIN EMPRISED TO GO TO THE CITY OF THE SAINTS AND SO INTO THE DELECTABLE ISLE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter24.xhtml">HOW YWAIN SAW THE CITY OF THE SAINTS THE FIRST TIME AND HOW HE HEARD THE BELLS THEREOF.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter25.xhtml">OF THE MANNER OF THE CITY AND HOW YWAIN FELL ADROWSING THEREIN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter26.xhtml">HOW YWAIN FOUND HIS LADY IN A GARDEN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter27.xhtml">HOW YWAIN WAS BIDDEN TO AN ABBEY AND SO TO BE ENTRAPPED BY TREASON.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter28.xhtml">HOW THE MOON CHANGED, AND HOW YWAIN BROKE FORTH FROM THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter29.xhtml">HOW YWAIN CAME INTO THE LOST LANDS OF THE SOUTH, AND OF THREE SIGNS WHEREBY THAT COUNTRY MIGHT BE KNOWN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter30.xhtml">HOW YWAIN HAD FELLOWSHIP WITH THE FAUNS.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter31.xhtml">HOW YWAIN MET WITH A SHEPHERDESS AND HEARD A MUSIC, AND HOW HE HAD SIGHT OF ALADORE THE FIRST TIME.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter32.xhtml">HOW YWAIN LIVED AS IT HAD BEEN IN THE GOLDEN AGE AND HOW HE WAS STILL UNSATISFIED.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter33.xhtml">OF THE MADNESS OF THE FAUNS, AND HOW YWAIN FORSOOK THEM SUDDENLY, AND HIS LADY WITH HIM.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter34.xhtml">HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WENT FLYING BETWEEN SUN AND MOON.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter35.xhtml">OF THE CITY OF DAEDALA, AND HOW AN OLD DAME THEREIN DESPAIRED OF IT.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter36.xhtml">OF A PROMISE THAT WAS MADE TO YWAIN, AND HOW HE TOOK WINGS TO SEEK FOR ALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter37.xhtml">HOW YWAIN CAME THE SECOND TIME TO THE HERMIT, AND HOW HE TOOK COUNSEL OF HIM.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter38.xhtml">HOW YWAIN RETURNED AGAIN TO PALADORE FOR TO DWELL THERE, AND HOW HE SPOKE TO APPEASE A STRIFE THAT WAS BETWEEN THE PEOPLE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter39.xhtml">HOW YWAIN BEHELD A GAME OF CHILDREN AND HEARD THEIR SINGING.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter40.xhtml">HOW YWAIN CAME TO ALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter41.xhtml">HOW YWAIN ENTERED INTO THE RHYMER'S HERITAGE, AND HOW HE FOUND HIS LADY THEREIN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter42.xhtml">HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WERE GIVEN EACH TO OTHER, AND HOW THEY WERE WEDDED BY THE FREEDOM OF ALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter43.xhtml">HOW AITHNE SHOWED YWAIN OF THE ENCHANTMENTS OF THE RHYMER, AND OF THEM WHICH DO THEREAFTER.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter44.xhtml">HOW YWAIN BEHELD HIS LADY SLEEPING, AND HOW HE DESIRED TO SEE THE CASTLE OF KERIOC.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter45.xhtml">HOW YWAIN FOUND AGAIN HIM WHICH WAS FORGOTTEN IN ALADORE, AND HOW HE HEARD A RING OF BELLS AT MIDNIGHT.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter46.xhtml">HOW YWAIN WAS COUNSELLED OF THE PRINCE OF PALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter47.xhtml">HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE HAD SIGHT OF HUBERT, AND RETURNED TOGETHER INTO PALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter48.xhtml">HOW YWAIN WAS AWEARIED OF PALADORE, AND HOW HE WAS MISHANDLED BY THE GREAT ONES OF THE CITY.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter49.xhtml">HOW YWAIN WAS EXCOMMUNICATE AFTER THE CUSTOM OF PALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter50.xhtml">HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO ALADORE THE LAST TIME, AS IN THIS TRANSITORY LIFE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter51.xhtml">OF TWO CITIES THAT WERE BUILDED DIVERSELY, AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE HEARD A HORN BLOWN OVERSEA FOR BATTLE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter52.xhtml">OF A SHIP THAT WAS FULL OF LADIES AND LOVELY KNIGHTS, AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE DEPARTED WITH THEM OVER SEA.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter53.xhtml">HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO PALADORE THE LAST TIME, AND HOW THE SNOW FELL ALL NIGHT LONG.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter54.xhtml">HOW THE HORN WAS GIVEN INTO YWAIN'S HAND, AND HOW HE SOUNDED THEREON A MORT ROYAL.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter55.xhtml">HOW THE EAGLES FARED IN FIGHTING, AND HOW SIR RAINALD WOULD HAVE DEALT WITH YWAIN.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter56.xhtml">HOW YWAIN BEHELD A DEAD MAN LAID ON BIER.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter57.xhtml">OF A BATTLE BY FIRE AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WERE NO MORE SEEN IN PALADORE.</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter58.xhtml">OF A TOMB THAT WAS FOUND IN PALADORE, AND OF DIVERS SAYINGS THAT WERE HEARD CONCERNING IT.</a></li>
    </ol>
</section>

<section epub:type="loi">
    <h1 class="tocTitle">ILLUSTRATIONS</h1>
    <hr class="tocStart"/>

    <ol class="tocList">
      <li><a href="../Text/chapter01.xhtml#illustration01">How Sir Ywain was led away of a Child</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter03.xhtml#illustration02">It was the hour of sparrow-chirp, which comes a little before the rising of the sun</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter07.xhtml#illustration03">How Ywain looked into the Water of a Well</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter10.xhtml#illustration04">How the Lady Ailinn saw Two Women of the Sidhe</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter15.xhtml#illustration05">He saw under the moon that lady sitting</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter16.xhtml#illustration06">He came to the mirror and stood still to look into it</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter22.xhtml#illustration07">And as he heard it Ywain forgot all the ills that he had suffered in all his life, and he thought on such a place as might be the land of his desire</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter26.xhtml#illustration08">How Ywain found his Lady in a Garden</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter29.xhtml#illustration09">One child held a squirrel between his hands</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter29.xhtml#illustration10">There was yet another child fast by, which vexed the piper with a barley straw</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter31.xhtml#illustration11">Upon the rocks was the young faun sitting, and playing on his pipes</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter39.xhtml#illustration12">How Ywain beheld a Game of Children</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter41.xhtml#illustration13">There before the doorway stood Aithne in the morning gold</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter51.xhtml#illustration14">And as she sang she weaved a witch-knot upon the air with both her hands</a></li>

      <li><a href="../Text/chapter57.xhtml#illustration15">A Tomb that was found in Paladore</a></li>
    </ol>
  </section>
</body>
</html>
