<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="frontmatter">
    <nav epub:type="toc" id="toc">
      <h1>Table of Contents</h1>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter01.xhtml">CHAPTER I. OF THE HALL OF SULNEY AND HOW SIR YWAIN LEFT IT.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter02.xhtml">CHAPTER II. HOW SIR YWAIN SAW HIS OWN FACE THE FIRST TIME.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter03.xhtml">CHAPTER III. HOW IT FORTUNED TO YWAIN TO FIND A STAFF IN THE PLACE OF HIS SWORD.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter04.xhtml">CHAPTER IV. HOW YWAIN CAME TO AN HERMITAGE IN A WOOD.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter05.xhtml">CHAPTER V. OF THE HERMIT AND OF HIS DEALING WITH YWAIN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter06.xhtml">CHAPTER VI. YET MORE OF THE HERMIT, AND OF A WORD THAT WAS IN YWAIN'S EARS.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter07.xhtml">CHAPTER VII. HOW YWAIN LOOKED INTO THE WATER OF A WELL, AND OF THAT WHICH HE SAW THEREIN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter08.xhtml">CHAPTER VIII. HOW THE HERMIT SET YWAIN ON HIS WAY AND OF TWO SECRETS THAT HE TOLD HIM.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter09.xhtml">CHAPTER IX. OF YWAIN'S JOURNEY BY NIGHT, AND HOW HE WAS BROUGHT BY A LADY TO THE PLACE OF HIS VISION, AND SO LEFT HER.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter10.xhtml">CHAPTER X. OF THE LADY AITHNE, AND OF THE GIFTS THAT SHE HAD FROM HER BIRTH.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter11.xhtml">CHAPTER XI. HOW THE LADY AILINN DEPARTED OUT OF THIS LIFE AND OF THE COUNSEL THAT SHE GAVE TO HER DAUGHTER AITHNE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter12.xhtml">CHAPTER XII. OF THE WARRING OF TWO COMPANIES, AND HOW YWAIN DID BATTLE FOR THE ONE OF THEM AGAINST THE OTHER.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter13.xhtml">CHAPTER XIII. HOW YWAIN WAS BROUGHT INTO THE CITY OF PALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter14.xhtml">CHAPTER XIV. HOW YWAIN SAT AT FEAST IN PALADORE WITH THE COMPANY OF THE TOWER AND THE COMPANY OF THE EAGLE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter15.xhtml">CHAPTER XV. OF THE GIFTS THAT WERE GIVEN TO YWAIN AND OF A DREAM THAT HE DREAMED.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter16.xhtml">CHAPTER XVI. HOW YWAIN FOUND HIS LADY AGAIN, AND HOW SHE WENT FROM HIM THE SECOND TIME.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter17.xhtml">CHAPTER XVII. OF ALADORE AND OF THE SANDS CALLED THE SHEPHERDINE SANDS.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter18.xhtml">CHAPTER XVIII. OF PALADORE AND OF THE PRINCES THEREOF.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter19.xhtml">CHAPTER XIX. HOW YWAIN SPOKE WITH THE PRINCE OF PALADORE AND HOW HE TOOK UPON HIM THREE ADVENTURES.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter20.xhtml">CHAPTER XX. OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE CHESS, AND BY WHAT MEANS YWAIN BROUGHT HIS MEN INTO OBEDIENCE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter21.xhtml">CHAPTER XXI. OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE CASTLE OF MAIDENS AND HOW YWAIN WAS COUNSELLED TO ESCAPE THEREFROM.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter22.xhtml">CHAPTER XXII. OF THE ADVENTURE OF THE HOWLING BEAST.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter23.xhtml">CHAPTER XXIII. HOW YWAIN EMPRISED TO GO TO THE CITY OF THE SAINTS AND SO INTO THE DELECTABLE ISLE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter24.xhtml">CHAPTER XXIV. HOW YWAIN SAW THE CITY OF THE SAINTS THE FIRST TIME AND HOW HE HEARD THE BELLS THEREOF.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter25.xhtml">CHAPTER XXV. OF THE MANNER OF THE CITY AND HOW YWAIN FELL ADROWSING THEREIN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter26.xhtml">CHAPTER XXVI. HOW YWAIN FOUND HIS LADY IN A GARDEN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter27.xhtml">CHAPTER XXVII. HOW YWAIN WAS BIDDEN TO AN ABBEY AND SO TO BE ENTRAPPED BY TREASON.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter28.xhtml">CHAPTER XXVIII. HOW THE MOON CHANGED, AND HOW YWAIN BROKE FORTH FROM THE CITY OF THE SAINTS.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter29.xhtml">CHAPTER XXIX. HOW YWAIN CAME INTO THE LOST LANDS OF THE SOUTH, AND OF THREE SIGNS WHEREBY THAT COUNTRY MIGHT BE KNOWN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter30.xhtml">CHAPTER XXX. HOW YWAIN HAD FELLOWSHIP WITH THE FAUNS.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter31.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXI. HOW YWAIN MET WITH A SHEPHERDESS AND HEARD A MUSIC, AND HOW HE HAD SIGHT OF ALADORE THE FIRST TIME.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter32.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXII. HOW YWAIN LIVED AS IT HAD BEEN IN THE GOLDEN AGE AND HOW HE WAS STILL UNSATISFIED.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter33.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXIII. OF THE MADNESS OF THE FAUNS, AND HOW YWAIN FORSOOK THEM SUDDENLY, AND HIS LADY WITH HIM.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter34.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXIV. HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WENT FLYING BETWEEN SUN AND MOON.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter35.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXV. OF THE CITY OF DAEDALA, AND HOW AN OLD DAME THEREIN DESPAIRED OF IT.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter36.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXVI. OF A PROMISE THAT WAS MADE TO YWAIN, AND HOW HE TOOK WINGS TO SEEK FOR ALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter37.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXVII. HOW YWAIN CAME THE SECOND TIME TO THE HERMIT, AND HOW HE TOOK COUNSEL OF HIM.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter38.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXVIII. HOW YWAIN RETURNED AGAIN TO PALADORE FOR TO DWELL THERE, AND HOW HE SPOKE TO APPEASE A STRIFE THAT WAS BETWEEN THE PEOPLE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter39.xhtml">CHAPTER XXXIX. HOW YWAIN BEHELD A GAME OF CHILDREN AND HEARD THEIR SINGING.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter40.xhtml">CHAPTER XL. HOW YWAIN CAME TO ALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter41.xhtml">CHAPTER XLI. HOW YWAIN ENTERED INTO THE RHYMER'S HERITAGE, AND HOW HE FOUND HIS LADY THEREIN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter42.xhtml">CHAPTER XLII. HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WERE GIVEN EACH TO OTHER, AND HOW THEY WERE WEDDED BY THE FREEDOM OF ALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter43.xhtml">CHAPTER XLIII. HOW AITHNE SHOWED YWAIN OF THE ENCHANTMENTS OF THE RHYMER, AND OF THEM WHICH DO THEREAFTER.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter44.xhtml">CHAPTER XLIV. HOW YWAIN BEHELD HIS LADY SLEEPING, AND HOW HE DESIRED TO SEE THE CASTLE OF KERIOC.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter45.xhtml">CHAPTER XLV. HOW YWAIN FOUND AGAIN HIM WHICH WAS FORGOTTEN IN ALADORE, AND HOW HE HEARD A RING OF BELLS AT MIDNIGHT.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter46.xhtml">CHAPTER XLVI. HOW YWAIN WAS COUNSELLED OF THE PRINCE OF PALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter47.xhtml">CHAPTER XLVII. HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE HAD SIGHT OF HUBERT, AND RETURNED TOGETHER INTO PALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter48.xhtml">CHAPTER XLVIII. HOW YWAIN WAS AWEARIED OF PALADORE, AND HOW HE WAS MISHANDLED BY THE GREAT ONES OF THE CITY.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter49.xhtml">CHAPTER XLIX. HOW YWAIN WAS EXCOMMUNICATE AFTER THE CUSTOM OF PALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter50.xhtml">CHAPTER L. HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO ALADORE THE LAST TIME, AS IN THIS TRANSITORY LIFE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter51.xhtml">CHAPTER LI. OF TWO CITIES THAT WERE BUILDED DIVERSELY, AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE HEARD A HORN BLOWN OVERSEA FOR BATTLE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter52.xhtml">CHAPTER LII. OF A SHIP THAT WAS FULL OF LADIES AND LOVELY KNIGHTS, AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE DEPARTED WITH THEM OVER SEA.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter53.xhtml">CHAPTER LIII. HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE CAME TO PALADORE THE LAST TIME, AND HOW THE SNOW FELL ALL NIGHT LONG.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter54.xhtml">CHAPTER LIV. HOW THE HORN WAS GIVEN INTO YWAIN'S HAND, AND HOW HE SOUNDED THEREON A MORT ROYAL.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter55.xhtml">CHAPTER LV. HOW THE EAGLES FARED IN FIGHTING, AND HOW SIR RAINALD WOULD HAVE DEALT WITH YWAIN.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter56.xhtml">CHAPTER LVI. HOW YWAIN BEHELD A DEAD MAN LAID ON BIER.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter57.xhtml">CHAPTER LVII. OF A BATTLE BY FIRE AND HOW YWAIN AND AITHNE WERE NO MORE SEEN IN PALADORE.</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="Text/chapter58.xhtml">CHAPTER LVIII. OF A TOMB THAT WAS FOUND IN PALADORE, AND OF DIVERS SAYINGS THAT WERE HEARD CONCERNING IT.</a>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </nav>
    <nav epub:type="landmarks">
      <h2>Guide</h2>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <a epub:type="cover" href="Text/cover.xhtml">Cover</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a epub:type="toc" href="Text/TOC.xhtml">Table Of Contents</a>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </nav>
  </body>
</html>
